content/resources.md, before:

---
title: "Resources"
date: 2020-05-28T17:48:34-07:00
---

This page serves as a general index of resources.

If something is missing, leave a comment or open a pull request on
[Github](https://github.com/JeremyRubin/utxos.org).


# BIP:
- [Specification](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0119.mediawiki)
- [Pull Request](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/21702)
- [Branch](https://github.com/JeremyRubin/bitcoin/tree/checktemplateverify-rebase-4-15-21)
- [Example RPCs](https://github.com/JeremyRubin/bitcoin/tree/checktemplateverify-feb1-workshop)

# Sapio

Sapio is a programming language for CTV contracts.

- [Book](https://learn.sapio-lang.org)
- [Repo](https://github.com/sapio-lang/sapio)

# Forums:
- IRC Channel: ##ctv-bip-review (logged, feel free to join)
- Telegram Discussion Group: https://t.me/op_ctv

# Workshops & Conferences
## San Francisco BIP-119 Workshop
- [Main Site](https://utxos.org/workshops/)
- [Transcript]( https://diyhpl.us/wiki/transcripts/ctv-bip-review-workshop/)
- [Morning Video](https://twitter.com/JeremyRubin/status/1223672458516938752)
- [Afternoon Video](https://twitter.com/JeremyRubin/status/1223729378946715648)
- [Slides]( https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vT9X5WNkGhBgctGezMYx7-RBu2iikMbTrKiv3uyDqB7_vkNgxmKsyS9zMquFhBT19sV5tgLQp5njcip/pub?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000)
## Seminars

- [London BitDevs Socratice Seminar](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=34jMGiCAmQM) [Transcript](https://github.com/kanzure/diyhpluswiki/blob/b446a9a3763a05239da595ae6321955f731a8101/transcripts/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-05-19-socratic-seminar-vaults.mdwn)
- [London Bitcoin Devs Bitcoin Script to Miniscript
Transcript](https://github.com/kanzure/diyhpluswiki/blob/05d21c79611e240c87387a8210984eed37e7da33/transcripts/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-02-04-andrew-poelstra-miniscript.mdwn#script-brainteasers)

## Presentations

- [Scaling Bitcoin Tel Aviv Video]( https://youtu.be/YxsjdIl0034?t=2453)
    - [Slides]( https://telaviv2019.scalingbitcoin.org/files/bip-op-securethebag.pdf)
    - [Transcript]( https://diyhpl.us/wiki/transcripts/scalingbitcoin/tel-aviv-2019/bip-securethebag/)
- [MIT Bitcoin Expo 2020](https://www.pscp.tv/w/1PlKQmdRNVDKE)
- [Bitcoin 2021 Miami](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w3FL0kEO_R4)

# Podcasts:

- [Chaincode Podcast](https://podcast.chaincode.com/2020/01/30/jeremy-rubin-3.html).
[Transcript](https://github.com/kanzure/diyhpluswiki/blob/88f3ee3e4be4d73ccd793b36d96ab4c5a74dd8ba/transcripts/chaincode-labs/2020-02-11-jeremy-rubin-ctv.mdwn).
- [Tales from the Crypt 130](https://talesfromthecrypt.libsyn.com/tales-from-the-crypt-130-jeremy-rubin)
- [Swan Signal](https://swansignalpodcast.com/episodes/jeremy-rubin-and-rockstar-developer)
- [Stephan Livera Podcast Episode 137](https://stephanlivera.com/episode/137/)



# Emails/Newsletters
## OpTech
- [OpTech #84](https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2020/02/12/)
- [OpTech #77](https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2019/12/18/)
- [OpTech #75](https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2019/12/04/#op-checktemplateverify-ctv)
- [OpTech #49](https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2019/06/05/)
- [OpTech #48](https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2019/05/29/)

## Bitcoin-Dev
- [BIP OP_CHECKTEMPLATEVERIFY](https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2019-December/017525.html)
- [OP_SECURETHEBAG (supersedes OP_CHECKOUTPUTSVERIFY)](https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2019-June/016997.html)
- [Congestion Control via OP_CHECKOUTPUTSHASHVERIFY
    proposal](https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2019-May/016934.html)

# Articles
- [A Look at Innovation in Bitcoin's Technology
    Stack](https://medium.com/digitalassetresearch/a-look-at-innovation-in-bitcoins-technology-stack-7edf877eab14)
- [Secure the Bag: Cutting Transactions in Half to Resolve Bitcoin Network Congestion](https://bitcoinmagazine.com/articles/secure-the-bag-cutting-transactions-in-half-to-resolve-bitcoin-network-congestion)

# Chat Logs/Forum Posts
- [##ctv-bip-review logs](http://gnusha.org/ctv-bip-review/)
- #bitcoin-wizards IRC
    - [May 21st, 2019](https://freenode.irclog.whitequark.org/bitcoin-wizards/2019-05-21)
    - [May 22nd, 2019](https://freenode.irclog.whitequark.org/bitcoin-wizards/2019-05-22)
    - [May 23rd, 2019](https://freenode.irclog.whitequark.org/bitcoin-wizards/2019-05-23)
    - [May 24th, 2019](https://freenode.irclog.whitequark.org/bitcoin-wizards/2019-05-24)
    - [May 31st, 2019](https://freenode.irclog.whitequark.org/bitcoin-wizards/2019-05-31)
    - [June 1st, 2019](https://freenode.irclog.whitequark.org/bitcoin-wizards/2019-06-01)
    - [November 28th, 2019](https://freenode.irclog.whitequark.org/bitcoin-wizards/2019-11-28#25861123;)
- [Bitcointalk January 25th, 2020](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=5220520.0)
- [How is OP_CHECKTEMPLATEVERIFY a scaling solution --
    StackExchange](https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/questions/92746/how-is-op-checktemplateverify-a-scaling-solution)

# Applications
## Vaults

### Implementations
- [python-vaults](https://github.com/kanzure/python-vaults)
- [Bitcoin Core
    Implementation](https://github.com/JeremyRubin/bitcoin/blob/checktemplateverify-feb1-workshop/src/wallet/rpcwallet.cpp#L1339)
### General Information
- [Custody Protocols Using Bitcoin Vaults](https://arxiv.org/abs/2005.11776)
- [On-chain defense in
depth](https://github.com/kanzure/diyhpluswiki/blob/5bd7b874a02bbb9f22a76d30441a7c200ee5eb76/transcripts/2019-02-09-mcelrath-on-chain-defense-in-depth.mdwn)
- [Revault](https://github.com/kanzure/diyhpluswiki/blob/2a52f13ff4b3a19bca4c0239401192afe94c572a/transcripts/honey-badger-diaries/2020-04-24-kevin-loaec-antoine-poinsot-revault.mdwn)
- [utxos.org explainer](https://utxos.org/uses/vaults/)

# Layer One Scaling
### Implementation
- [Sendmanycompacted
    RPC](https://github.com/JeremyRubin/bitcoin/blob/checktemplateverify-feb1-workshop/src/wallet/rpcwallet.cpp#L949)
### General Information

- [utxos.org explainer](https://utxos.org/uses/scaling/)
- [Congestion Simulation](https://utxos.org/analysis/bip_simulation/)
- [Batched Payment Simulation](https://utxos.org/analysis/batching_sim/)
- [How is OP_CHECKTEMPLATEVERIFY a scaling solution --
    StackExchange](https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/questions/92746/how-is-op-checktemplateverify-a-scaling-solution)

# Layer Two
- [Laolu](https://github.com/kanzure/diyhpluswiki/blob/2ff5b4114f6662f50911528883c3c98ff61a0de4/transcripts/bitcoin-core-dev-tech/2019-06-06-noinput-etc.mdwn)
- [Batch Channels](https://utxos.org/uses/batch-channels/)
- [Non Interactive Channels](https://utxos.org/uses/non-interactive-channels/)
- [Increased Max HTLCs](https://utxos.org/uses/htlcs/)


# Mining Pools
- [utxos.org explainer](https://utxos.org/uses/miningpools/)
- [balancing payouts via lightning](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1tmvv3og8Hs-1h6JMlePmlMouycN1RM_MBWdQp7taKuw/edit?usp=sharing)

Commit message:

Add more tools to resources

content/resources.md, after:

---
title: "Resources"
date: 2020-05-28T17:48:34-07:00
---

This page serves as a general index of resources.

If something is missing, leave a comment or open a pull request on
[Github](https://github.com/JeremyRubin/utxos.org).


# BIP:
- [Specification](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0119.mediawiki)
- [Pull Request](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/21702)
- [Branch](https://github.com/JeremyRubin/bitcoin/tree/checktemplateverify-rebase-4-15-21)
- [Example RPCs](https://github.com/JeremyRubin/bitcoin/tree/checktemplateverify-feb1-workshop)

# Tools
## Sapio

Sapio is a programming language for CTV contracts.

- [Book](https://learn.sapio-lang.org)
- [Repo](https://github.com/sapio-lang/sapio)

## Minsc
A CTV compatible [compiler](https://min.sc) with an example [playground](https://min.sc/nextc/)
## Simple CTV Vault 
A [simple client]r([https://github.com/jamesob/simple-ctv-vault) in python for
basic vaults.

## Python Vaults
A [sophisticated recursive vault](https://github.com/kanzure/python-vaults) as
a python program, using CTV or pre-signing.

# Forums:
- IRC Channel: ##ctv-bip-review (logged, feel free to join)
- Telegram Discussion Group: https://t.me/op_ctv

# Workshops & Conferences
## San Francisco BIP-119 Workshop
- [Main Site](https://utxos.org/workshops/)
- [Transcript]( https://diyhpl.us/wiki/transcripts/ctv-bip-review-workshop/)
- [Morning Video](https://twitter.com/JeremyRubin/status/1223672458516938752)
- [Afternoon Video](https://twitter.com/JeremyRubin/status/1223729378946715648)
- [Slides]( https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vT9X5WNkGhBgctGezMYx7-RBu2iikMbTrKiv3uyDqB7_vkNgxmKsyS9zMquFhBT19sV5tgLQp5njcip/pub?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000)
## Seminars

- [London BitDevs Socratice Seminar](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=34jMGiCAmQM) [Transcript](https://github.com/kanzure/diyhpluswiki/blob/b446a9a3763a05239da595ae6321955f731a8101/transcripts/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-05-19-socratic-seminar-vaults.mdwn)
- [London Bitcoin Devs Bitcoin Script to Miniscript
Transcript](https://github.com/kanzure/diyhpluswiki/blob/05d21c79611e240c87387a8210984eed37e7da33/transcripts/london-bitcoin-devs/2020-02-04-andrew-poelstra-miniscript.mdwn#script-brainteasers)

## Presentations

- [Scaling Bitcoin Tel Aviv Video]( https://youtu.be/YxsjdIl0034?t=2453)
    - [Slides]( https://telaviv2019.scalingbitcoin.org/files/bip-op-securethebag.pdf)
    - [Transcript]( https://diyhpl.us/wiki/transcripts/scalingbitcoin/tel-aviv-2019/bip-securethebag/)
- [MIT Bitcoin Expo 2020](https://www.pscp.tv/w/1PlKQmdRNVDKE)
- [Bitcoin 2021 Miami](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w3FL0kEO_R4)

# Podcasts:

- [Chaincode Podcast](https://podcast.chaincode.com/2020/01/30/jeremy-rubin-3.html).
[Transcript](https://github.com/kanzure/diyhpluswiki/blob/88f3ee3e4be4d73ccd793b36d96ab4c5a74dd8ba/transcripts/chaincode-labs/2020-02-11-jeremy-rubin-ctv.mdwn).
- [Tales from the Crypt 130](https://talesfromthecrypt.libsyn.com/tales-from-the-crypt-130-jeremy-rubin)
- [Swan Signal](https://swansignalpodcast.com/episodes/jeremy-rubin-and-rockstar-developer)
- [Stephan Livera Podcast Episode 137](https://stephanlivera.com/episode/137/)



# Emails/Newsletters
## OpTech
- [OpTech #84](https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2020/02/12/)
- [OpTech #77](https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2019/12/18/)
- [OpTech #75](https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2019/12/04/#op-checktemplateverify-ctv)
- [OpTech #49](https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2019/06/05/)
- [OpTech #48](https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2019/05/29/)

## Bitcoin-Dev
- [BIP OP_CHECKTEMPLATEVERIFY](https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2019-December/017525.html)
- [OP_SECURETHEBAG (supersedes OP_CHECKOUTPUTSVERIFY)](https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2019-June/016997.html)
- [Congestion Control via OP_CHECKOUTPUTSHASHVERIFY
    proposal](https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2019-May/016934.html)

# Articles
- [A Look at Innovation in Bitcoin's Technology
    Stack](https://medium.com/digitalassetresearch/a-look-at-innovation-in-bitcoins-technology-stack-7edf877eab14)
- [Secure the Bag: Cutting Transactions in Half to Resolve Bitcoin Network Congestion](https://bitcoinmagazine.com/articles/secure-the-bag-cutting-transactions-in-half-to-resolve-bitcoin-network-congestion)

# Chat Logs/Forum Posts
- [##ctv-bip-review logs](http://gnusha.org/ctv-bip-review/)
- #bitcoin-wizards IRC
    - [May 21st, 2019](https://freenode.irclog.whitequark.org/bitcoin-wizards/2019-05-21)
    - [May 22nd, 2019](https://freenode.irclog.whitequark.org/bitcoin-wizards/2019-05-22)
    - [May 23rd, 2019](https://freenode.irclog.whitequark.org/bitcoin-wizards/2019-05-23)
    - [May 24th, 2019](https://freenode.irclog.whitequark.org/bitcoin-wizards/2019-05-24)
    - [May 31st, 2019](https://freenode.irclog.whitequark.org/bitcoin-wizards/2019-05-31)
    - [June 1st, 2019](https://freenode.irclog.whitequark.org/bitcoin-wizards/2019-06-01)
    - [November 28th, 2019](https://freenode.irclog.whitequark.org/bitcoin-wizards/2019-11-28#25861123;)
- [Bitcointalk January 25th, 2020](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=5220520.0)
- [How is OP_CHECKTEMPLATEVERIFY a scaling solution --
    StackExchange](https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/questions/92746/how-is-op-checktemplateverify-a-scaling-solution)

# Applications
## Vaults

### Implementations
- [python-vaults](https://github.com/kanzure/python-vaults)
- [Bitcoin Core
    Implementation](https://github.com/JeremyRubin/bitcoin/blob/checktemplateverify-feb1-workshop/src/wallet/rpcwallet.cpp#L1339)
### General Information
- [Custody Protocols Using Bitcoin Vaults](https://arxiv.org/abs/2005.11776)
- [On-chain defense in
depth](https://github.com/kanzure/diyhpluswiki/blob/5bd7b874a02bbb9f22a76d30441a7c200ee5eb76/transcripts/2019-02-09-mcelrath-on-chain-defense-in-depth.mdwn)
- [Revault](https://github.com/kanzure/diyhpluswiki/blob/2a52f13ff4b3a19bca4c0239401192afe94c572a/transcripts/honey-badger-diaries/2020-04-24-kevin-loaec-antoine-poinsot-revault.mdwn)
- [utxos.org explainer](https://utxos.org/uses/vaults/)

# Layer One Scaling
### Implementation
- [Sendmanycompacted
    RPC](https://github.com/JeremyRubin/bitcoin/blob/checktemplateverify-feb1-workshop/src/wallet/rpcwallet.cpp#L949)
### General Information

- [utxos.org explainer](https://utxos.org/uses/scaling/)
- [Congestion Simulation](https://utxos.org/analysis/bip_simulation/)
- [Batched Payment Simulation](https://utxos.org/analysis/batching_sim/)
- [How is OP_CHECKTEMPLATEVERIFY a scaling solution --
    StackExchange](https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/questions/92746/how-is-op-checktemplateverify-a-scaling-solution)

# Layer Two
- [Laolu](https://github.com/kanzure/diyhpluswiki/blob/2ff5b4114f6662f50911528883c3c98ff61a0de4/transcripts/bitcoin-core-dev-tech/2019-06-06-noinput-etc.mdwn)
- [Batch Channels](https://utxos.org/uses/batch-channels/)
- [Non Interactive Channels](https://utxos.org/uses/non-interactive-channels/)
- [Increased Max HTLCs](https://utxos.org/uses/htlcs/)


# Mining Pools
- [utxos.org explainer](https://utxos.org/uses/miningpools/)
- [balancing payouts via lightning](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1tmvv3og8Hs-1h6JMlePmlMouycN1RM_MBWdQp7taKuw/edit?usp=sharing)
