content/signals.md, before:

---
title: "BIP-119 Signalled Support"
date: 2021-08-0T00:56:54-07:00
---

The following organizations, individuals, or pools have communicated preference
for and intent to support a BIP-119 activation attempt using reasonable
parameters. These "soft signals" are non-binding until an actual concrete proposal
has been formed, but are useful for measuring community consensus.

Open an [issue](https://github.com/jeremyrubin/utxos.org/issues/new) or a [pull
request](https://github.com/JeremyRubin/utxos.org/pulls) on GitHub to modify or
create an entry for your organization.


### Developers & Individuals
> Developers & Individuals include the programmers behind Bitcoin Core,
> wallets, or other related technologies as well as generally knowledgeable
> individual's opinions.

{{< devsignals >}}

### Businesses
> Businesses represent a corporate interest in Bitcoin. Individuals at
> companies may have preferences differing from their corporation, or in
> alignment -- it is encouraged to list both the business and any individual
> contributor's opinion here. For the purpose of this site, most open source
> projects are not considered "businesses" and they should prefer to sign as
> individual contributors.

{{< bizsignals >}}

### Mining Pools

> note: Most miners mine via mining pools, which aggregate hash power to reduce
> variance in mining returns. While individual miners may also express a
> preference for or against a fork, pools serve as a proxy for the sentiment
> amongst their constituent miners, were they to misjudge they might lose
> hashrate.

**Mining percentages were snapshotted as of August 1st, 2021.**

{{< miners >}}

Commit message:

clarify language of individuals not being on behalf of org

content/signals.md, after:

---
title: "BIP-119 Signalled Support"
date: 2021-08-0T00:56:54-07:00
---

The following organizations, individuals, or pools have communicated preference
for and intent to support a BIP-119 activation attempt using reasonable
parameters. These "soft signals" are non-binding until an actual concrete proposal
has been formed, but are useful for measuring community consensus.

Open an [issue](https://github.com/jeremyrubin/utxos.org/issues/new) or a [pull
request](https://github.com/JeremyRubin/utxos.org/pulls) on GitHub to modify or
create an entry for your organization.


### Developers & Individuals
> Developers & Individuals include the programmers behind Bitcoin Core,
> wallets, or other related technologies as well as generally knowledgeable
> individual's opinions. Although they may have affiliations, this is not a statement
> on behalf of their organization (see below for Businesses).

{{< devsignals >}}

### Businesses / Organizations
> Businesses represent a corporate  or other organized interests in Bitcoin.
> Individuals at companies may have preferences differing from their
> corporation, or in alignment -- it is encouraged to list both the business
> and any individual contributor's opinion here. For the purpose of this site,
> most open source projects are not considered "businesses" and they should
> prefer to sign as individual contributors.

{{< bizsignals >}}

### Mining Pools

> note: Most miners mine via mining pools, which aggregate hash power to reduce
> variance in mining returns. While individual miners may also express a
> preference for or against a fork, pools serve as a proxy for the sentiment
> amongst their constituent miners, were they to misjudge they might lose
> hashrate.

**Mining percentages were snapshotted as of August 1st, 2021.**

{{< miners >}}
